# Analysis

<br>

The Problem
---
Sysadmins are often unaware of unauthorized devices or hidden security flaws on a network. Stickbug Scanner will address this by automatically scanning networks to track device history, highlight changes and find vulnerabilities.

<br>

Primary User
---
My primary user will be the sysadmin of a local manufacturing company called Gary. They currently manage the entire network and they are in the process of upgrading the sites cybersecurity. They need an application to scan for vulnerabilities, collect data about each network device, and understand recent changes to the network.

Transcript of interview:
> Please describe the sitation  
> Gary: Well, say for instance a switch dies. Currently, to find problems in the network, I have multiple batch files which ping each known device, but this is slow and unreliable. It would be great for this process to be automatic. Also I would like to secure the network further by scanning specific devices for open ports, and unpatched software.  
> How would you like interact with this app. UI or CLI?  
> Gary: Definitely UI. I would like it to be intuative, instead of having to learn yet another set of CLI program commands.  
> Any personal UI preferences?  
> Gary: Yeah, I dont mind if the text is small, or I need a large monitor - I hate submenues.  
> What different information would you like to gather for each host?  
> Gary: I need the devices MAC address, IP address, hostname, location on the network, and main open ports. Also information about this device that I have added such as its name and description would also be great.  
> How many devices are on your network?  
> Gary: Around a hundred. It would be great if the scanning process was fairly quick as currently my batch scripts take ages to run.  
> How would you like these devices to be displayed? In an interactive graph system, or a long filter list?  
> Gary: Well after trying to implement network mapping software myself, I realise that you would likely have to have custom software running on each device for accurate network topology. This is not ideal as its yet another thing to maintain and keep secure. I am perfectly happy with a long list of devices that I can filter, provided I can filter them by their name, mac address, ip address of type. Still, it would be good if the app could give some sort of network location for each device.  
> Apart from scanning the network for new and down devices, collecting information about them and running vulnerability scans, is there anything else that you would like my app to do?  
> Gary: Its not critical, but being able to open a remote shell with specified user details would save me a lot of time when managing devices.  
> What device does the app need to run on?  
> Gary: I primarily use Linux.

| Specification Point | Primary User Requirement | Success Criteria | Necessity |
|-|-|-|-|
| 01 | Application has intuative and simple UI | There are no submenus, each button is clearly labeled, and different functions of the software are clearly separated | Critical |
| 02 | Scans complete within a much short period of time than Gary batch scripts | Time efficiency of the device scan is more efficient that O(n) | Critical |
| 03 | App has a persistent list of known devices with name and description | Device information is linked to its MAC address and stored on disk This is then loaded in when the app is opened | Critical |
| 04 | Device list displays the state of all known and unknown devices | The device list is made up of all saved devices, then the scan populates/updates the device state information and adds any unrecognised devices | Critical |
| 05 | Device list can be filtered by device name, IP address, MAC address, or group | App has a filter algorithm which identifies what type of search term the user is using There is also a tag system for related groups of devices | Critical |
| 06 | More in depth scans can be run on filtered devices | There is a dropdown for the type of scan that should be run (device scan, open port scan, vulnerability scan, and full scan) | Critical |
| 07 | The scan also find the approximate network location of the device | The app displays the packet trace for each device to enable to user to know which switch its behind | Acceptable Limitation |
| 08 | Vulnerability scan can alert for known CVEs | When running a vulnerability scan, the app provides the code and url for each one that it finds | Acceptable Limitation |
| 09 | App can remotely manage network devices | User has ssh auth details input at the top of the app, and can click on a host to open a new remote shell and automatically log in | Acceptable Limitation |
| 10 | Linux support | The app can be opened on most mainstream Linux distributions | Critical |

<br>

Perspective Users
---


<br>

Analysis of Current Systems
---


<br>

Research
---


<br>

Objectives & Acceptable Limitations
---


<br>

Modelling
---
